# CS 251: Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technologies
## [Dan Boneh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dan_Boneh), [Joseph A. Grundfest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_Grundfest)

<!-- Juan Benet, Filecoin, CEO Protocol Labs -->

1. Welcome
2. Crypto as a technology, as a force in society, mechanism that regulators are gonna have to grapple with.
3. drug /curefor hyperinflations
4. not to take an overly optimistic or pessimistic view
5. how it works: mining, hashes, blockchain applications. Basics/high level of the technology.
6. - BC is a data structure. Consensus (all agree), Persistence (never removed), Liveness (anyone can add)
   - caveat - предостережение (except the last about the last most recent entries)
   - applications: currency
   - blockchain replicated accross many parties: miners, end-users, service providers

7. The Bitcoin blockchain
8. digital signature: generate (pk,sk), sign(sk,message)=sig64, verify(pk,message,sig64)
  adress: hash(pk) / bitaddress.org
9. - Pay-To-Public-Key-Hash 
   - Unspent transaction output
10. transactions, storage
11. wallet/Etherium account : stores all secret signing keys. Example:[MeteMask](https://metamask.io/)
    *welcome back*
12. send fund
13. protect your crypto assets   [etherscan.io](https://etherscan.io/)
14. problem: scaling 3 trans/sec, high volatility
15. Decentralized Apps , weather forecast
16. - dapp.review  [https://www.cryptokitties.co/](cryptokitties.co)
    - spike - шип
17. record ownership on a blockchain
18. data privacy (g^v*h^r) Zcacsh, Monero
19. - mining: Proof of Work, 
    - random, Sybil attack
20. - Selfish mining, Feather forking
    - Proof of Space, 
    - Proof of Stake: algorand, cardano, tendermint, EOS ... 
    - Quorum systems: Stellar, ...
21. Use BC for: public verifiability, centralized data is unacceptable
   
   Data is not on BC, hash
   - Visa:   1667 trans/second
   - PayPal:  193 trans/second
   - Etherium: 20 trans/second
   - Bitcoin:   4 trans/second
   
   Scaling: Lightening(BTC), Plasma(Etherium); Sharding.

   https://cs251.stanford.edu/

22. Joseph A. Grundfest selfpresentation
23. Crypto is code. If you forget your code you've lost it. In millions databases.
24. Crypto vs tokens
25. Theft: rubber the Exchange, steal account password at Exchanges, piece of paper can be taken
26. Anonymity vs. Pseudonymity. We figured out the names behind the wallet. Russians hackers can't, neither can you.
27. Trustlessness, Statelessness 
    
    Недоверчивость, Безгражданство
   
   - When you exist in the physical world, your subject in the authorities in whichever jurisdiction you happen physically to exist.
   - Bitcoin is giant video game?
28. - Fraud: plagiasm ICO, who founder, no functioned website, don't guarantee financial returns
    - Initial Coin Offering
    - discrapancy - несоответствие
29. - What is the SEC? SEC doesn't understand the magnitude of problem. Developing takes time. Strategic surrender.
    - What would we get?
    - Many people out of jurisdiction. It's a national phenomenon.
    - We don't have the ability to track it.
    - Resource allocation. We're gonna follow other things.

   - They isn't clued.
   - I amn't aware.

   - We could decrease search results of fraud to protect people from obvious scam.
30. - Complexities in Regulatory Structure. New things.
    - Sequrities: stock, bond, investment contract
31. citrus, rights to the profits of the citrus, management contract (Land Sales contract)
32. - Howey Test whether a transaction qualifies as an "investment contract,"
    - Under the Howey Test, an investment contract exists 
    if there is an "investment of money in a common enterprise with a reasonable expectation of profits 
   to be derived from the efforts of others."

       1. Is it an investment of money?                         You betcha!
       2. Is there commonality?                                 Horizontal common enterprise, vertical isn't necessary
       3. Is for consumption or investment purposes?            BTC doesn't even exist at the start of ICO
       4. Expectation of profits coming from effort of others?
       5. And is there an alternative regulatory regime?        Doubtful, there's no federal crypto agency.

   You're a passive investor.
   It's a Sequrities, regulated by the SEC


33. - BTC and ETH are decentrilised. No one who's available to file the information you typical need in registration statement.
    - That's not troubling. There is no information asssimetry.
   1. - Speach do not have the force of law.
   - litigation - судебные разбирательства
   - persuasive - убедительный
   - precedential effect / president
   - intriguing / trigger
   2. - Analysis depends upon his understanding of the state of facts.
      - I find the fallowing fact to be true and based on those facts.
      - I apply the law and I reached the following conclusion.
      - we're going to adopt the following rule.

      - Eather decentralized, we're also decentralized. if you don't have the foundational fact supporting that conclusion, how do you make that argument?
      - 3 organizations are the biggest miners, what kind of decentralization?
   3. - Are the facts upon wich the director is relying all of the relevant facts or are they even accurate?
      - No evidence they took evidence from people under oath
      - Was it that thay read (пр. вр.) a bunch of stuff on the internet and believed ...?
   4. - The actual articulation of law.
      - The textualist approach to the interpretation.
        - The word contract jumps out at you. There's gotta be a contract.
        - The orange is not a contract, sequrities.

      - None of the cases say there must be a promoter or issuer. It's like a story about the black swan.
      - If there's no a promoter then you don't have commonality.
  
  
